Git is a version control system

What is version control?
keeping differents of versions of things... under control

resume.pdf
resumeFINAL.pdf
resumeFINALmondayForCOMPANY.pdf
resumeFINALFINAL.pdf

is a system - kind ad hoc

Operating System has a version control system
if you try to copy a file into a folder w/ the same name as an existing file
resume(1).pdf
resume(2).pdf

Google Docs or Microsoft Word have version control built in
- shows changes over time

Photoshop and similar tools have their own versioning system

What about tracking changes on source code? Or code that's statistical analysis?
We need a version control system built for code

git is a version control system invented to solve version control problems for linux operating system

version 1.0
version 2.0
version 3.0
Mac OS 10.14.02
think of versions as snapshots like a saved game

with git, we're making snapshots of changes in code, tracking at a per-line, per-file basis
big idea => keep the original filenames, no analysis_FINAL.py, only analysis.py

version 1.0
version 2.0 (but what if we accidentally have a bug or a problem in version 2.)
checkout version 1..
version 2.1 with the fix

semantic versioning is a pattern to identify pieces of a version number
major_version.minor_version.patch.bugfix

Mac OS 10.14.02

Python 2.4 
Python 3.7



git repository is a regular ol' folder that is tracked by git.

mkdir example/
cd example
git init (one time only)

once you have a local repo
you can git what files to track or not
per file, you can add which changes (staging)
commiting means making a snapshot
pushing => 


git init (one time in a folder to enable git)
tell git what files to track:
we do that with "git add"
then once we're ready to make a commit (snapshot),
we commit any added files.


git log (shows the history of commits)



git init (one time per folder) turns a folder into a git repo
git status
git add filename.txt (to staging a file)
git status
git commit (to create the snapshot)
git status
git log (shows the history of commits)

git diff (diff means changes. Green is additions and red is deleted lines)
You can do `git diff` before commiting to see what you're about to commit


git add filename.txt

git commit -m "your commit message goes in quotes"

git diff filename.txt (shows you the changes of that file name)


Git, as a version control system is:
1. Permanent Record (like a financial ledger) (we use this alot to make backups)
2. Time Machine 
3. Parallel universes (branches). Out of scope for the 1st day of git, but there's a resource in the appendix


Repos => git enabled folders
local repo => repo on your laptop
remote repo => a repo on another computer or "in the cloud"